# Tweets-Sentiment-Analysis
The sentiment analysis here uses TF-IDF that is term frequency with Inverse document frequency
Introduction to the project:
This project is used to perform Sentiment Analysis often also known as Opinion Mining on a set of tweets, as pulled from twitter for a particular University, by performing web scraping on it and training a model to recognize the sentiment of that tweet. This could be used to understand what image of the University is perceived outside. This model could help prospective students when they plan to choose a University. As humans, we often have the tendency to form an opinion about any of the things that we hear or see. Let’s say a machine is asked to perform the same function. How does the machine learn what forms a positive opinion, what forms a negative opinion and so any other sentiments that may be involved in a model that you build. To have a machine perform these steps we make use of Sentiment Analysis. Sentiment analysis is used to give an emotion to a set of sentences when put together. Giving the idea of the systems text, when analyzed, preprocessed, and processed for emotions involved it tells us what emotion is expressed in that content.
There can be various applications for such kind of projects where sentiment analysis can be used in real time:
1.	It was used by an extremely famous sportswear brank Nike: To understand how customers reacted to new athletic footwear that they launched. They did so by noticing the use to their hashtag with a tagline that says Just do itt which has garnered many views.
2.	Next sentiment analysis was also used by mobile carrier brand to test how users responded to changes they carried out in their brand building, where call operators of that brand used customer interactions.
The sentiment analysis here uses TF-IDF that is term frequency with Inverse document frequency, these are very frequently employed in recommendation systems for movies, hotels etc. based on previous reviews people decide if they are going ahead with any recommendations or not.
Objective: To find if the tweets about a particular University are giving negative, positive or neutral emotions about the same using a Machine learning model. To do so, tweets from a twitter using 7-8 hashtags related to Duke University are retrieved. Several tweets are retrieved. Next, these tweets are preprocessed using different methods. Post this, features are extracted from the cleaned data. Once this is done, a machine learning model using python is built. To do this, the LSTM layer, GRU layer, CNN layer, Dense layers along with Embedding layer are employed. 15 epochs are used to run the model.
Post this, I have evaluated the model’s performance and score using F1 score, recall, precision and used a confusion matrix to visualize the same. I changed the parameters of the model and played with hyperparameters and many number of layers to get an output that best fits the system as twitter API data was used, which was posted by different people. The api takes realtime data from twitter and hence can have information that is fluctuating based on the tweets retrieved for that call, this may sometimes give rise to an unbalanced dataset.
